What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

It creates a .git folder which will be the home for your commits in the reposititory. It initially tells you a list of files that are in the directory that have yet to be tracked with commits in git. You need to start at this step to build a home for your list of commits. 

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

It is not yet committed to the repository, but allows you to batch changes together into single commit. It is somewhere between the working directory and the repository. It adds value to be able to control what enters a single commit and and what remains separate commits. 

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

You can use git status to check what files have been added to the staging area and only when the proper files are found there can you move forward with the commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

When you want to keep multiple versions without having to revert to a to a different commit in your revision history. When you want to develop more than one version and track changes to each one separately, branching will most likely be the solution.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

You can easily see the parent-child relationships between all the commits. From this perspective, one can see the development mapped out.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

The result is a combined branch with the changes of each of the branches combined. We represent it in the diagram as the two branches coming together because, one branch becomes the main and the other one goes away, in a sense.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Pros are that it saves time when the merge is easy to figure out. The cons are that when there is a merge conflict it must be done manually, even when the developer may have thought the merge was obvious.